<!-- ---
hide:
  - navigation
  #- toc
--- -->
# Data

The wheat example data is taken from Kansas State University provided by DSSAT v4.8. The sowing date, latitude and daily weather data of the site is used as input for the phenology algorithms.

<!-- <iframe src="http://localhost/~ernestogiron/Test/PMTiles/leaflet.html" width="100%" style="border:none"></iframe>  -->

## Weather Data

The last generation of [ERA5] global atmospheric reanalysis weather data is used. This product is generated by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts ([ECMWF]) and is provided both at an hourly and monthly time scale, with a horizontal resolution of 0.1° x 0.1° (~10 km), covering the period 1979 to present (Hersbach et al., 2020).

 [ECMWF]: https://www.ecmwf.int/
 [ERA5]: https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/cdsapp#!/dataset/10.24381/cds.6c68c9bb?tab=overview

The weather data used in the example is from Kansas State University (Wagger,M.G. 1983) stored in DSSAT v4.8. 


### References

- Ritchie, J.T.1991. Wheat phasic development. p. 31-54. In Hanks and Ritchie (ed.) Modeling plant and soil systems. Agron. Monogr. 31, ASA, CSSSA, SSSA, Madison, WI.

- Hoogenboom, G., C.H. Porter, V. Shelia, K.J. Boote, U. Singh, W. Pavan, F.A.A. Oliveira, L.P. Moreno-Cadena, T.B. Ferreira, J.W. White, J.I. Lizaso, D.N.L. Pequeno, B.A. Kimball, P.D. Alderman, K.R. Thorp, S.V. Cuadra, M.S. Vianna, F.J. Villalobos, W.D. Batchelor, S. Asseng, M.R. Jones, A. Hopf, H.B. Dias, L.A. Hunt, and J.W. Jones. 2023. Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer (DSSAT) Version 4.8.2 (www.DSSAT.net). DSSAT Foundation, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

- Kansas Example Data documented in Wagger,M.G. 1983 Nitrogen cycling in the plan-soil system. Ph.D. thesis, Kansas State Univ.

- Boogaard, H., Schubert, J., De Wit, A., Lazebnik, J., Hutjes, R., Van der Grijn, G., (2020): Agrometeorological indicators from 1979 to present derived from reanalysis. Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) Climate Data Store (CDS). DOI: 10.24381/cds.6c68c9bb (Accessed on 23-Sep-2023)
